# FINAL PROJECT BIOGRAPHY - Pet Protection Order

## Author

James Cronin

## Framing 

When I first started working on this project, I was having difficulty to figure out the problem that is caused with having to fill out a Pet Protection Order. It seemed simple, if an individual is a party in an exisiting case or there has been an issued judgment in a case where they were a party, and that case was regarding a restraining order, an individual whether the plaintiff or the defendant in that original case could file this petition relative to domesticated animals. Then I remembered I go to law school and understand the language being used. Even reading the document, I really had to think with how it operates and what the individual could request. For instance the order can be for multiple animals, one of which the individual is requesting the court to grant them possession, the other the individual is asking the court to order the other party to refrain from taking some action towards the animal. It is not clear what type of claim can be made by this order. While lawyers completing this form for clients may know the specifics of how the form works, individuals who cannot afford or may not have frequent access to legal counsel for their case would have difficulty understanding the form. Further, legal aid organizations who have a lot of clients, but not a lot of time may find it difficult to sit with clients and explain the process and purpose of this confusing form. 

## Research 

I briefly mentioned the current solutions above, but will go into further detail. For those who can afford a lawyer and have frequent access to them, they can have the lawyer complete the form for them, or sit with their lawyer while completing the form in order to understand the process further. Legal aid organizations could do the same, but as we have heard from our guest speakers there is too much need, and not enough time or personnel to meet this need. One solution could be something similar to what we heard from Professor Steenhuis, one day a week hold a clinic which the entire time you help people to fill out this form. But as we heard, this only partially meets the need. Additionally, on the Lit Labs Court Forms Bank, the individual could fill out the form as a pdf, but as I explained it is difficult to understand what request can be made and how to use the form. In this situation I see it as very possible an individual could fill out the form incorrectly and jeapordize their claim. 
What are the existing solutions (technical and content-based solutions). 

## Ideation & Prototyping

I thought about this often when constructing my interview, considering what I like to call the simple complexity of the Pet Protect Order form. Considering this simple complexity I felt I could have gone in various directions when constructing the interview. At one point I considered scrapping questions regarding obtaining a hearing regarding the Pet Protection Order. I felt this section caused confusion and the one completing the form could benefit from this being absent. Then I considered the cost, the individual would have to fill the section out anyway, and instead I should clarify the purpose of this section when constructing the interview. I considered this form to split into three sections, the first being the information about the underlying case, the second being the information specific to the protection of domesticated animals, and the third being the section regarding whether the individual obtained a hearing regarding the pet protection order. My first thought was to explain the sections of the form at the beginning of the interview in the intro screen. The benefit of this would be that the person would see the process of the form before they even started the interview. The cost would be that they could not go back to these instructions very easily throughout the interview. The other option was to still have this information at the start of the interview, but to also have the informational screens before the first question of each section, again outlying the process and purpose of each section. The benefit would be that the information would be readily available throughout the interview, the cost being an individual who may understand the form would find it annoying to have this information keep appearing. However, I believe in this situation the benefit of this strategy greatly outweighs the cost.  
Consider the costs & benefits of the technical solutions or design configurations. Creates prototype after considering multiple alternatives. 

## User Testing 

While writing this biography I wished I had done more user testing. I sent a google form to four people, a lawyer. Two of whom were either a lawyer or a law student, and two who were non-lawyers/law students. I randomly assigned each individual to either complete certain version of the docassemble interview. I used the codingthelaw.org random picker to assign each person to complete a certain docassemble interview. The first version, as I mentioned above had all of the information regarding the process of the form, and which claims could be made at the beginning of the interview. The second version had the information at the start of the interview and throughout the interview as well. I used this testing to not only decide where the clarifying information should be included, but also to receive feedback on the flow of the interiew and the wording of the questions. I wish I did more testing (had a larger population) was that the lawyer was assigned to the interview which had the information only at the start of the interview, and i felt that a lawyer who is familair with the language and the laws surrounding the pet protection order would be content with having all of the information at the start of the interview because they are familar with the the order. Thankfully, one of the non-lawyers/ law students used this interview as well and provided that that they were confused when they got into the meat of the interview because they did not have the information from the start readily available to them. 

One suggestion that was common from both versions of the interview was that some of the questions were either too broad or not organized well. 

The documents showing the testing and results can be found in the docassemble folder of the docassemble-PetProtectionOrder Repo. 


## Refinement 

I took the user feedback from both interviews and included it in my final version. From the feedback it became clear that having the informational screens throughout the interview would be helpful to the most users. Also, every response felt I should have explained what type of case anchors the interview, because in both I just had a link to the law where the user could read it. However, it would be much more beneficial to have a brief explanation of this instead of making the user do it themselves. Further, the users which used the interview with the informational screens throughout the interview appreciated the information, but also wished it was a more conformed order. The placement of these interview screens did not contribute to the flow of the interview. As a solution I decided to, as I explained briefly before, to separate the interview into three sections; the preliminary information, the information directly pertaining to the animals, and the court hearing information for the pet protection order. This seemed to me as a good solution to not only keep the valuable information but to also contribute to the flow of the interview. To better organize my questions, I employed the use of bullet points which made my questions and informational screens much more easy to read. 

## Complexity 

This project is through the document assembly line project. I used the pdf version of the pet protection order, filled in the fields and then constructed an interview through the weaver and the playground. The purpose of this project is to use of the expert system of the assembly line and docassemble to create an interview to automate the pet protection order form. This is an important project because the form, even to someone like me who does not have a lot of legal experience but understands legal terminology and processes, is very confusing to follow especially with what types of claims can be made and what the requirements are for the underlying anchoring case.  

## Impact and Efficiencies 

Using this automation process, a practitioner could become much more productive and efficient. The time which can be saved from not having to help a client work through a paper form is astronomical. I would argue that a practitioner working at full capacity, would not necessarily have less work because I think this could expand their capabilities to have more clients, but their work would be more productive. Further, the client could also go through this interview without the help from their lawyer. The lawyer could simply send the interview to their client to complete, and review the form when they send it back to them. To add on that note, and I think the most important impact of this interview, is that an individual completeing this form by themselves would not need the assistance of a lawyer to complete the form. This could be that they cannot afford a lawyer, or do not have ready access to their lawyer. The individual could fill this form out without the help of a lawyer, saving them money and time. 

## Fitness and Completeness 

I would argue very strongly that creating an automated interview to complete this pet protection order form is much better than the status quo. Currently, individuals, whether lawyer's or non-lawyer's, must fill at the form in an pdf application such as adobe, or by hand. Even with this technology, the user cannot fill out the form completely online, and must print the form in order to sign it. Personally, I do not have a printer and I imagine that many people have their lawyer do this for them, because they have access to a printer. Further, being able to complete this form without or with minimial assistance from a lawyer, or someone who understands the form, not only benefits the user, but also the attorney's. I consider this interview a great improvement from what is the current process. Something I cannot control is the online filing of this form, which unfortunately will have to develop later on.
 
## Real World Viability 

I believe this interview is ready for real world use. Especially considering the development process and the user feedback. Using this feedback I think I have created something that is ready to be used. Even if in the future, I or someone else considers there is a better way to word a question or present informational screens, the process of modifying the interview is simple, and I beleive minimal changes will need to be made. You already have the code, but you can test the interview for yourself here: https://apps-dev.suffolklitlab.org/interview?i=docassemble.playground316%3APet_Protection_Order_8.yml#page1

## Sustainability 

Being an assembly line project, and considering the readiness of the interview operating, updating, and maintaining the interview is relatively simple. The code which controls the interview is good, but I am not going to say it is perfect, because nothing is perfect. Whether it be me or someone else involved with the assembly line, I think eventually there will come a better version of a question or an informational screen. One scenario which this interview is not prepared for is if the form used or process used for the pet protection order is changed. A new interview would have to be created using the new form. Considering this however, this interview and the code can be used as a baseline for this future interview. But, that is for the future. 

The code for this interview can be found here: https://github.com/jacronin4/docassemble-PetProtectionOrder/blob/main/docassemble/PetProtectionOrder/data/questions/Pet_Protection_Order_8.yml
